IAN
THATCHER, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROYAL COMMISSIONER WILLIS
PRESS COMMISSIONER ROSS PRESENT
COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE,
COMMISSIONER EVERSON HERE,
COMMISSIONER SHORTENER
COMMISSIONER KIATO HERE,
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM DO ITEM C
APPROVAL OF JENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA?
ALL RIGHT HERE HEARING AND SEE
NO OBJECTI AGENDA HAS BEEN
APPROVED AS PRESENTED ONTO ITEM
D PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS THE PORTION OF THE
MEETING WHERE PERSONS WANT TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING ON
THIS AGENDA TO COMMENT ON SUCH
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER THE MEETING IN TOWN
NINE SEVEN EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO
ONE FOUR FIVE ONE FIVE.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND VIDEO FEED STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND ONE BY ONE USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER.
KRISTEN, DO WE HAVE ANY CALLS
FOR A PUBLIC COMMENT?
NO CALLERS HAVE INDICATED YOU
SEE NO CALLERS.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION AND MOVE ON TO ITEM IX
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
I BELIEVE THERE IS NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
.
THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
AND THEN ONTO TWO HEARINGS ITEM
F ONE TWO TWENTY THREE POINT
EVISTA HAS BEEN REMOVED BY THE
APPLICANT OR WITHDRAWN BY THE
APPLICANT SINCE THIS WAS
ADVERTISED AS PART OF THE
AGENDA WE WILL NEED TO HOLD A
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION.
SO I WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THE APPLICATION AT
223 POINT OF VISTAR.
KRISTEN, DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
FOR THAT HEARING?
NO CALLERS HAVE INDICATED SO
NOW I&apos;M MOVING SO I WILL CLOSE
THE PUBLIC PORTION FOUR TO
TWENTY THREE RENOVATOR AND MOVE
ON TO ITEM F TO 211 CREST THIS
NATURALLY AND PLEASE GIVE US
STAFF SURE TO ELEVEN CRUSTIES
IN THE OLD ASIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
I&apos;M GOING TO LET COMMISSIONER
QUIJANO GIVE YOU SOME
BACKGROUND ABOUT IT THIS TWO
STORY AND GABAL HOUSE HAS
STUCCO ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND
VINYL ON THE SECOND FLOOR
BEFORE WITH HIS FRONT PORCH
WITH LOW STUCCO WALLS AND THREE
OVER ONE WINDOWS ACCORDING TO
CITY DIRECTORY THE HOUSE IS
FIRST OCCUPIED IN NINETEEN
TWENTY ONE BY AGATHA STEEP
WIDOW OF ISRAEL G AND CLARA K
STEEP A CLERK AT MACACO AND
ELMER J WERE BORDERS A TWO
STOREY REAR EDITION EXCUSE ME
WAS APPROVED BY THE HGC IN
NOVEMBER OF TWENTY SIXTEEN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SO THIS IS AN APPLICATION FOR
ADT GAS METER.
THE LOCATION OF THE METER IS
CAN YOU GO SEE MY CURSOR ON THE
SCREEN?
GREG IS RIGHT IN FRONT OF THIS
RED BRICK CHIMNEY WILL ZOOM YOU
IN HERE A LITTLE CLOSER IT&apos;S
FOUR FEET FROM THE FRONT CORNER
OF THE HOUSE AND THEN WE&apos;VE GOT
EIGHT FEET OF PORCH IN FRONT
OF THAT.
&gt;&gt; HERE IS THE PHOTO PROVIDED
BY DTT OF WHERE THE METER WOULD
BE LOCATED AND THIS IS A REVIEW
COMMITTEE PHOTO OF WHAT THAT
AREA LOOKS LIKE.
A LITTLE MORE CLOSE UP HERE.
WE&apos;LL TAKE YOU BACK OUT AGAIN
HERE.
SO WE&apos;RE FOR FEEDBACK FROM THE
CORNER.
WE&apos;VE GOT EIGHT FEET OF PORCH
IN FRONT OF IT THIS IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT IS A POST MOUNTED METER FROM
THE SECRETARY INTERIOR
STANDARDS STANDARD NUMBER TWO
SAYS THAT THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURE SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS.
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE THE MASSING
SIZE SCALE AND ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES TO PROTECT THE
HISTORIC INTEGRITY OF THE
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT.
NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS IN
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED THE FUTURE OF THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR MECHANICAL
SYSTEMS.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO INSTALL A
COMPLETELY NEW MECHANICAL
SYSTEM IF REQUIRED FOR THE NEW
USE THAT IT IS THE LEAST
ALTERATION POSSIBLE TO THE
BUILDING&apos;S FLOORPLAN EXTERIOR
ELEVATIONS AND THE LEAST DAMAGE
TO THE HISTORIC BUILDING
MATERIAL FROM THE ANTIBALLISTIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL NEW
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT IN A
MANNER THAT HISTORIC MATERIALS
AND FEATURES ARE NOT DAMAGED OR
OBSCURED AND USING COMPATIBLE
SCREENING AROUND OUTDOOR
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SUCH AS
VEGETATION AND FENCING.
IT&apos;S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO ATTACH
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT TO
HISTORIC FABRIC IS NOT DAMAGED
OR DESTROYED.
THAT&apos;S WHY DTI HAS BEEN USING
POST MOUNTED METERS INSTEAD
OF WALL MOUNTED METERS ON THESE
HISTORIC PROPERTIES NOT
APPROPRIATE AS INSTALLING NEW
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS OR
WIRING IN LOCATIONS THAT CHANGE
OR DESTROY CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES AND MATERIALS.
THIS IS PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THAT&apos;S ALL THAT I HAVE FOR YOU
.
STAFF DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR COMMISSIONER AS
WELL AS AND MYSELF FOR ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
MR ROSO DID YOU WANT TO GIVE A
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OR I
CAN GO FIRST.
UM I THINK THIS ONE IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THERE IS A BANK REGULATOR IN A
PIPE ACTUALLY ON THE OPPOSITE
SIDE OF THE HOUSE CURRENTLY BUT
IT&apos;S RIGHT IT IS ON THE
DRIVEWAY SIDE AND IT&apos;S PAID
PRETTY MUCH RIGHT UP TO THE I
THINK THAT TO MOVE THE METER TO
THE LOCATION INDICATED AND
SUGGESTED IS ACTUALLY A BETTER
LOCATION FOR THE METER IN THIS
INSTANCE AND I THINK IT&apos;S
PROBABLY A SAFER LOCATION FOR
IT AS WELL.
UM, AS MISS THATCHER STATED, IT
IS SET BACK, YOU KNOW, BEHIND
THE PORCH AND THE FRONT CORNER
OF THE HOUSE.
SO I THINK THAT ACTUALLY HAVING
THAT PORCH DISTANCE HELPS.
THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE TO
COMMISSION.
WHAT ELSE DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE TO ADD?
OK, WOULD THE APPLICANT PLEASE
ON MEET YOUR MICROPHONE, TURN
ON YOUR VIDEO IF POSSIBLE AND
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR RECORD AND IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD TO
THE STAFF REPORT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT PLEASE DO SO
.
&gt;&gt; YES PLEASE CALL ME ENERGIA
CONTRACTOR FOR DETI.
I KNOW WE&apos;VE SPOKEN ABOUT A
NUMBER OF THESE OVER THE LAST
YEAR AND A HALF OR SO.
I THINK YOU DID A GREAT JOB
OUTLINING KIND OF WHAT WE SEE
HERE.
THERE&apos;S THE DRIVEWAY ON THE
OPPOSITE SIDE.
IF WE WERE TO MOVE A METER
WHERE THE EXISTING AND
REGULATOR IS IT WOULDN&apos;T BE
SUFFICIENT SPACE FOR THE
HOMEOWNER TO TO USE THEIR
DRIVEWAY.
ALSO FURTHER BACK ON THAT SAME
SIDE OF THE HOUSE THERE ARE IS
AN AIR CONDITIONING UNIT, A
NUMBER OF OTHER UTILITIES AND
WINDOWS THAT MAKE IT IMPOSSIBLE
TO MOVE IT ANY FURTHER BACK IN
ADDITION TO THE TEN FOOT
LIMITATION WE&apos;VE TALKED ABOUT
IN THE PAST.
SO THAT&apos;S ALL I WANTED TO THANK
YOU BUT I APPRECIATE IT LOOKS
LIKE PREM KAVALA DO YOU HAVE
ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD
?
GESNER OK UM COMMISSIONERSHIP
MY APOLOGIES ON YOUR YEAH
THAT&apos;S GOOD THANKS A LOT.
&gt;&gt; AS I SAID EARLIER THANKS
COMMISSIONER.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THERE&apos;S IS A
COMMISSIONER.
QUESTION FOR THE REVIEW
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THERE&apos;S IS A
COMMITTEE OR FOR THE APPLICANT
QUESTION FOR THE REVIEW
BUT I&apos;M CURIOUS ACCORDING TO
COMMITTEE OR FOR THE APPLICANT
THE PHOTO IT LOOKS LIKE THE
BUT I&apos;M CURIOUS ACCORDING TO
METER IS GOING TO BE UM I GUESS
THE PHOTO IT LOOKS LIKE THE
PASS IF YOU&apos;RE LOOKING FROM THE
METER IS GOING TO BE UM I GUESS
SIDEWALK FURTHER BACK FROM THE
PASS IF YOU&apos;RE LOOKING FROM THE
FRONT EDGE OF THE CHIMNEY
SIDEWALK FURTHER BACK FROM THE
THAT&apos;S FACING THE SIDEWALK.
FRONT EDGE OF THE CHIMNEY
IT&apos;S KIND OF A WIDE CHIMNEY IS
THAT&apos;S FACING THE SIDEWALK.
IT IS IN FACT A METER GOING TO
IT&apos;S KIND OF A WIDE CHIMNEY IS
BE WITHIN THE BRICK OF THE
IT IS IN FACT A METER GOING TO
CHIMNEY OR IS IT GOING TO BE IN
BE WITHIN THE BRICK OF THE
FRONT OF THE CHIMNEY?
CHIMNEY OR IS IT GOING TO BE IN
&gt;&gt; IT FEELS LIKE IF IT&apos;S GOING
FRONT OF THE CHIMNEY?
TO BE NEXT TO THE CHIMNEY IT&apos;S
&gt;&gt; IT FEELS LIKE IF IT&apos;S GOING
GOING TO BE LIKE FURTHER OUT
TO BE NEXT TO THE CHIMNEY IT&apos;S
THAN IF IT WAS GOING TO BE IN
GOING TO BE LIKE FURTHER OUT
FRONT OF THE CHIMNEY AND I&apos;M
THAN IF IT WAS GOING TO BE IN
WONDERING WHERE IT ACTUALLY IS
FRONT OF THE CHIMNEY AND I&apos;M
GOING TO BE.
WONDERING WHERE IT ACTUALLY IS
I THINK THAT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION.
GOING TO BE.
THERE WAS NOBODY THERE TO ASK
I THINK THAT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION.
QUESTIONS FOR THE REVIEW
THERE WAS NOBODY THERE TO ASK
COMMITTEE ERM FOR US TO ASK
QUESTIONS FOR THE REVIEW
QUESTIONS.
COMMITTEE ERM FOR US TO ASK
I HAD A SIMILAR QUESTION SO
QUESTIONS.
GREAT.
I HAD A SIMILAR QUESTION SO
&gt;&gt; OK YES THAT&apos;S FOR RIGHT YEAH
GREAT.
SURE NO PROBLEM.
&gt;&gt; OK YES THAT&apos;S FOR RIGHT YEAH
SORRY SORRY TO INTERRUPT BUT
SURE NO PROBLEM.
FOLLOW UP ON THAT QUESTION IF
SORRY SORRY TO INTERRUPT BUT
THE AND I HAD THE SAME QUESTION
FOLLOW UP ON THAT QUESTION IF
SO IF THE IS GOING TO BE
THE AND I HAD THE SAME QUESTION
AFFIXED TO THE CHIMNEY I&apos;D LIKE
SO IF THE IS GOING TO BE
TO UNDERSTAND HOW THIS IS GOING
AFFIXED TO THE CHIMNEY I&apos;D LIKE
TO GO IN THE WATER LIKE YEAH
TO UNDERSTAND HOW THIS IS GOING
IT&apos;S POST MOUNTED ERM SO IT&apos;S
TO GO IN THE WATER LIKE YEAH
WELL JUST YEAH IF YOU COULD
IT&apos;S POST MOUNTED ERM SO IT&apos;S
EXPLAIN HOW IT&apos;S GOING TO
WELL JUST YEAH IF YOU COULD
HAPPEN SO YES IT WOULD BE POST
EXPLAIN HOW IT&apos;S GOING TO
MOUNTED I BELIEVE IT WOULD BE
HAPPEN SO YES IT WOULD BE POST
IN FRONT OF THE CHIMNEY PUTTING
MOUNTED I BELIEVE IT WOULD BE
IT IN PERSPECTIVE MOSTLY TO GET
IN FRONT OF THE CHIMNEY PUTTING
DISTANCE AWAY FROM THE EXISTING
IT IN PERSPECTIVE MOSTLY TO GET
VENT YOU CAN SEE IN THE PICTURE
DISTANCE AWAY FROM THE EXISTING
RIGHT THERE SO THAT IN THE
VENT YOU CAN SEE IN THE PICTURE
EVENT THOSE THOSE METERS ARE
RIGHT THERE SO THAT IN THE
DESIGNED TO VENT GAS WHEN
EVENT THOSE THOSE METERS ARE
THERE&apos;S OVER PRESSURIZATION
DESIGNED TO VENT GAS WHEN
THAT WE CAN&apos;T RISK THAT GAS
THERE&apos;S OVER PRESSURIZATION
GETTING BACK INTO THE BUILDING.
THAT WE CAN&apos;T RISK THAT GAS
SO WE HAVE TO STAY A MINIMUM
GETTING BACK INTO THE BUILDING.
DISTANCE AWAY FROM THE VENT YOU
SO WE HAVE TO STAY A MINIMUM
SEE THERE.
DISTANCE AWAY FROM THE VENT YOU
&gt;&gt; SO I MEAN SO I MEAN I
SEE THERE.
UNDERSTAND THAT&apos;S POST BUT IS
&gt;&gt; SO I MEAN SO I MEAN I
IT WHAT I&apos;M ASKING IS WILL ANY
UNDERSTAND THAT&apos;S POST BUT IS
ASPECT OF THE EQUIPMENT
IT WHAT I&apos;M ASKING IS WILL ANY
PENETRATE THE CHIMNEY OR IS IT
ASPECT OF THE EQUIPMENT
JUST IT&apos;S WELL NOT OK.
PENETRATE THE CHIMNEY OR IS IT
&gt;&gt; IT WILL BE PIPES TO
JUST IT&apos;S WELL NOT OK.
PENETRATE INTO THE STRUCTURE
&gt;&gt; IT WILL BE PIPES TO
THERE.
PENETRATE INTO THE STRUCTURE
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE YES IT&apos;S GOING
THERE.
TO PENETRATE THE STUCCO.
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE YES IT&apos;S GOING
&gt;&gt; YES.
TO PENETRATE THE STUCCO.
OVER HERE BUT IT WILL NOT BE
&gt;&gt; YES.
AFFIXED TO THE CHIMNEY OR
OVER HERE BUT IT WILL NOT BE
PENETRATION.
AFFIXED TO THE CHIMNEY OR
&gt;&gt; OK, JUST FOR POINT
PENETRATION.
OF CLARIFICATION, WHEN YOU SAY
&gt;&gt; OK, JUST FOR POINT
THE STUCCO IS IT THE STUCCO AT
OF CLARIFICATION, WHEN YOU SAY
THE THE BASE OF THE CHIMNEY OR
THE STUCCO IS IT THE STUCCO AT
IS IT THE HOUSE ON THE HOUSE?
THE THE BASE OF THE CHIMNEY OR
&gt;&gt; MY APOLOGIES.
IS IT THE HOUSE ON THE HOUSE?
IT&apos;S NOT ON OK.
&gt;&gt; MY APOLOGIES.
YES, I GUESS JUST ANOTHER
IT&apos;S NOT ON OK.
FOLLOW UP TO THAT IS IF THE
YES, I GUESS JUST ANOTHER
LOCATION IS RIGHT HERE AT THE
FOLLOW UP TO THAT IS IF THE
FRONT EDGE OF THE CHIMNEY IS
LOCATION IS RIGHT HERE AT THE
PROPOSED, IS THERE ANY WAY IN
FRONT EDGE OF THE CHIMNEY IS
MOVING IT A LITTLE BIT FURTHER
PROPOSED, IS THERE ANY WAY IN
BACK TOWARD THE BACKYARD BUT
MOVING IT A LITTLE BIT FURTHER
STILL SORT OF ON THE OPPOSITE
BACK TOWARD THE BACKYARD BUT
SIDE OF THE CHIMNEY?
STILL SORT OF ON THE OPPOSITE
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE LIMITED IN THE AMOUNT
SIDE OF THE CHIMNEY?
OF FUEL LINE THAT WE CAN RUN SO
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE LIMITED IN THE AMOUNT
WE PUT IT BACK AS FAR AS WE
OF FUEL LINE THAT WE CAN RUN SO
POSSIBLY COULD WHILE STAYING IN
WE PUT IT BACK AS FAR AS WE
THAT TEN FOOT LIMITATION.
POSSIBLY COULD WHILE STAYING IN
OK, I AGREE IT WOULD BE MORE
THAT TEN FOOT LIMITATION.
IDEAL TO TRY TO GET SOME MORE
OK, I AGREE IT WOULD BE MORE
LANDSCAPING IF WE COULD BUT
IDEAL TO TRY TO GET SOME MORE
WE&apos;RE BOUND BY THOSE
LANDSCAPING IF WE COULD BUT
LIMITATIONS.
WE&apos;RE BOUND BY THOSE
&gt;&gt; OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS NOW?
LIMITATIONS.
I&apos;D LIKE TO OPEN THE PUBLIC
&gt;&gt; OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS NOW?
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
I&apos;D LIKE TO OPEN THE PUBLIC
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
APPLICATION AT 211 CREST
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
CHRISTIAN.
APPLICATION AT 211 CREST
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS NOW
CHRISTIAN.
CALLERS HAVE INDICATED CLOSE A
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS NOW
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION.
CALLERS HAVE INDICATED CLOSE A
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION.
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
THIS APPLICATION?
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
I CAN DO MR
ONE MOMENT I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT 211
CREST AVENUE, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO INSTALL A
GAS METER ON THE NORTH SIDE
ELEVATION FOUR FEET FROM THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE HOUSE
IN FRONT OF THE CHIMNEY AS
SHOWN IN THIS APPLICATION AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
AND EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR MECHANICAL
SYSTEMS SECOND, COMMISSIONER
ROCHLIN SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE THERE ARE
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION NOT
BEING ANYWHERE BEFORE READY TO
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES, YES, YES.
FOLLOW THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING WORK
ON YOUR PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
ONTO ITEM F THREE THREE FIFTEEN
W MOSLEY COMMISSIONER KEANNA
WOULD YOU MIND GIVING THE
HISTORY OF THIS HOUSE OR OK
THIS TWO STOREY GABLE FRONTIER
FEATURES DECORATIVE SHINGLES
AND TRIM IN THE STREET FACING
GABLE FULL WITH HIP ROOF PORCH
WITH TURN POSTS AND DECORATIVE
BACK BRACKETS A CUT STONE
FOUNDATION AND SOME TO OVER TWO
WINDOWS AT FIRST APPEARS IN
1894 CITY DIRECTORY AS THE
WEIGAND HOME AT TEN W MOSLEY
RENUMBERED FIFTEEN WAS MOSLEY
BY 1897 THE LOT IS AN ORIGINAL
PLOTTED LOT THAT IS SIXTY SIX
FEET BY A HUNDRED FORTY FIVE
FEET AND THIS HOUSE WAS USED AS
A PROPRIETARY HOSPITAL AT SOME
POINT PRIOR TO NINETEEN FORTY
FIVE THE RELAND MATERNITY HOME
WAS OPERATED BY MRS VELVA
SEABURY AND THERE&apos;S A PIECE
WRITTEN IN THE ANN ARBOR
OBSERVER TITLED THE PRIVATE
HOSPITAL ERA WRITTEN BY GRACE
AND IN MARCH OF NINETY FOUR.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT HERE WE ARE AT
THREE FIFTEEN WEST MOSLEY YOU
CAN SEE THAT IT IS A LOVELY
HOUSE.
IT&apos;S HAD SOME RECENT CARE SHOWN
MOST OF THE WINDOWS HAVE BEEN
REPLACED IN THE HOUSE THERE ARE
THERE IS ONE RIGHT BACK HERE
THOUGH THAT YOU CAN GET A GOOD
VIEW OF IN A MINUTE AND THIS
APPLICATION IS TO TAKE OFF THE
SCREEN PORCH AND REPLACE IT
WITH A SINGLE STORY ED.
EVERYTHING THAT YOU SEE HERE
EXCEPT THE SCREEN PORCH IS FROM
THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE.
IT&apos;S FROM PRE NINETEEN FORTY
FIVE.
&gt;&gt; I SAY THAT WITH SOME
CERTAINTY BUT NOT 100 PERCENT
CERTAINTY.
THERE WAS A ONE STORY ED. ON
THE BACK OF THIS HOUSE IN
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE IN NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT ON THE NEXT
SANDBORN THERE WAS A SECOND
FLOOR EDITION BUT SINCE AND YOU
CAN&apos;T REALLY TELL FROM THE
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN AERIAL
PHOTOS BECAUSE IT JUST LOOKS
LIKE A ROOF SINCE ALMOST NO
CONSTRUCTION WENT ON DURING
WARTIME AND THAT&apos;S WHY THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE ENDS AT
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE BECAUSE
REALLY THINGS KIND OF SCREECHED
TO HEART AND WERE DONE
DIFFERENTLY AFTERWARDS.
I DO BELIEVE I AM CONVINCED
THAT THIS ADDITION WAS ADDED ON
THE SECOND FLOOR OF THE REAR
WING DURING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
SO I&apos;M COUNTING THE WHOLE THING
AS HISTORIC MATERIALS ON THE
HOUSE THE YOU CAN SEE THAT THE
GARAGE IS NEARBY.
HERE&apos;S THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
THERE&apos;S THAT COOL TOO OVER TO
WINDOW ONE OF THE REMAINING
ONES THESE WINDOWS ON THE BACK
WOULD BE REMOVED IN ORDER TO
MAKE WAY FOR THE ONE STOREY
EDITION THE CONTRACTOR HAS
OFFERED TO JUST LEAVE THE
CASING THAT&apos;S SHOWN AS A WHITE
OR A CREAM COLOR HERE FOR THESE
WINDOWS AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE
WHERE IT DOESN&apos;T INTERFERE WITH
THE ROOFLINE OF THE ADDITION
AND JUST PAINT IT GREEN BUT
THEN INFILL IT WITH WITH WOOD
SIDING TO MATCH THE EXPOSURE
OF THE EXISTING HISTORIC WOOD
SIDING IN ORDER TO KEEP A
RECORD OF WHERE THOSE WINDOWS
USED TO BE.
AGAIN, THESE WINDOWS IT&apos;S THEIR
DATE IS UNCERTAIN.
THEY WERE PROBABLY INSTALLED IN
AROUND THE EARLY 1940S WHEN
THIS ADDITION WAS LIKELY BUILT
THERE DOUBLE HANGS THERE.
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE WEIGHTS AND
PULLEYS.
THEY DO HAVE SINGLE PANES
OF GLASS.
THEY&apos;RE HARD TO PIN DOWN BUT
REGARDLESS, LET ME MOVE ON HERE
WITH OUR TOUR.
&gt;&gt; THESE TWO ALL THE WINDOWS ON
THIS ELEVATION WOULD REMAIN NOW
WE&apos;RE GOING AROUND THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS THE EAST SIDE OF THE
HOUSE AND HERE&apos;S THE EAST SIDE
OF THE HOUSE
.
OK, SO EXISTING THREE SEASON
ROOMS HERE IT GOES AWAY.
THIS IS THE EXISTING GOING
THROUGH SOME EXISTING DRAWINGS
FIRST
THESE TWO WINDOWS WOULD
BE REMOVED AND THE PORCH WOULD
BE REMOVED.
NOW WE&apos;RE BACK UP AT THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE
KITCHEN WINDOWS TO
REMAIN OK, HERE&apos;S THE
ADDITIONS.
IT&apos;S SET IN A FOOT FROM THIS
REAR CORNER OF THE HOUSE AND
IT&apos;S GOT A BUMP OUT HERE THAT
ACCOMMODATES A MUDROOM ENTRY.
YOU CAN SEE THAT HERE.
HERE&apos;S THE MUDROOM.
THIS IS A STEP DOWN FROM THE
DRIVEWAY ONTO A CONCRETE STOOP
.
YOU CAN SEE THE ONE FOOT INSET
HERE.
THERE&apos;S A WINDOW THE BACK AND A
COUPLE OF SMALLER WINDOWS ON
THE SIDE ELEVATION DRAWING.
THERE WOULD BE NO CHANGE FROM
THE FRONT VIEW ELEVATION.
HERE&apos;S A LITTLE MUDROOM ENTRY.
IT HAS A HIPPED ROOF IN ORDER
TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE OTHER
PORTRUSH ON THE HOUSE YOU CAN
SEE THAT ALL OF THESE WINDOWS
REMAIN EXACTLY WHERE THEY ARE
AND THE AC UNIT REMAINS THIS IS
THE OTHER SIDE.
HERE&apos;S THE ADDITION IT&apos;S GOT A
DIVIDED LIKE WINDOW WITH JUST
TWO PANES.
THIS IS A NOD TO THE HOUSES
ORIGINAL TO OVER TO WINDOWS
WHICH I WOULD LOVE SOMEONE TO
PUT BACK ON THIS SOMEDAY.
BUT FOR NOW THERE&apos;S ENOUGH
DIFFERENTIATION ON THIS REAR
EDITION.
THIS IS A VERY MODERN TREATMENT
OF THE WINDOWS FENESTRATION
THOUGH IT DOES HAVE THE TWO
LIGHT DIVIDED WINDOWS WHICH IS
AGAIN A NOD TO THE HISTORIC
WINDOWS THAT YOU SEE OVER HERE
.
THE SIDING IS SEVEN TISH&apos;S AND
IT HAS A WIDER REVEAL THAN THE
EXISTING WOOD THE THE TRIM DOES
MATCH IN DIMENSIONS BUT NOT IN
MATERI.
IT&apos;S ALL ONE OF THE BORAL OR
THE OTHER MANUFACTURED WOOD
PRODUCTS AND IT IS ON JUST A
QUMU FOUNDATION.
THIS IS OH WHEN THE APPLICANTS
GET UP THEY CAN TELL US I THINK
IT&apos;S BUILT ON A SLAB.
THEY CAN CONFIRM THAT FOR US
BUT IT TIES IN QUITE NICELY.
YOU CAN SEE HERE WHERE THOSE
WINDOWS USED TO BE ALMOST ALL
OF THE RIGHT HAND SIDE ONE
WOULD WOULD SHOW UP IF THE
CASING WERE LEFT HERE AND A
LITTLE BIT OF THE LEFT HAND
SIDE WINDOW.
SO NOW WE&apos;VE GOT SOME
RENDERINGS.
THERE&apos;S EDITION IN THE BACK THE
THE ADDITION IS LESS THAN 50
PERCENT OF THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
CURRENT HOUSE AND IT&apos;S I
BELIEVE IT&apos;S AROUND FORTY FIVE
PERCENT AND IT&apos;S MUCH LESS THAN
THE FLOOR AREA SINCE EVERYTHING
THAT&apos;S THERE NOW COUNTS AS
FLOOR AREA THERE ARE SOME LIGHT
FIXTURES LOOKS LIKE BY THE BACK
DOOR AND THEN THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE I GUESS THAT&apos;S YARD
LIGHTING AND HERE&apos;S THE LITTLE
HIPPED ENTRY KIND OF JOINS THE
ADDITION TO THE MAIN HOUSE.
THE WINDOWS ARE VINYL CLAD
JELD-WEN NOT IN THIS MODERN
PATTERN BUT AS INDICATED ON THE
DRAWINGS.
SO FROM SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARD, NO ONE SAYS THAT A
PROPERTY WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN A NEW
USE.
IT REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO
ITS DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS,
FEATURE SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIP.
I HAVE READ TO YOU NUMBER TWO
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES, FINISHES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES.
CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT CHARACTERIZE
A PROPERTY WILL BE PRESERVED.
I HAVE READ NO.9 AND NUMBER
TEND TO YOU I HAVE READ NO NEW
ADDITIONS ON ADJACENT OR
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL
BE UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE CENTRAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED.
THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR&apos;S
GUIDELINES RECOMMEND
CONSTRUCTING A NEW ADDITIONS
THAT THERE&apos;S THE LEAST POSSIBLE
LOSS OF HISTORIC MATERIAL THAT
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED.
ALSO LOCATING THE ATTACHED
EXTERIOR EDITION THE REAR OR AN
INCONSPICUOUS SIDE OF A
HISTORIC BUILDING LIMITING ITS
SIZE AND SCALE AND DESIGNING
NEW ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW.
ALSO CONSIDER THE ATTACHED
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS BOTH IN
TERMS OF THE NEW USE AND THE
APPEARANCE OF OTHER BUILDINGS
IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD DESIGN.
THE WORK MAY BE CONTEMPORARY OR
MAY REFERENCE DESIGN MOTIFS
FROM THE HISTORIC BUILDING
.
I THINK THAT THIS ADDITION DOES
A NICE JOB OF OF OF REMAINING
SIMPLE BORROWING A FEW MOTIFS
FROM THE HISTORIC BUILDING BUT
BUT NOT REALLY FOOLING THE
TRAINED EYE INTO THINKING THAT
IT COULD START PART OF THE
STRUCTURE FROM THE ANN ARBOR
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
I WENT OVER THIS ALREADY THAT
THE ADDITIONS FOOTPRINT SHOULD
EXCEED SHOULD NOT EXCEED ONE
HALF OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING&apos;S
FOOTPRINT OR THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING&apos;S TOTAL FLOOR AREA AND
IT DOES NOT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO STAFF DOES BELIEVE THAT THIS
IS AN APPROPRIATE SIZE, SCALE
AND PLACEMENT FOR THIS EDITION
AND DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER WILLIS AND MYSELF
WERE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
DO YOU WANT TO GO AHEAD AND LET
ME GUESS I&apos;LL START THIS ONE.
UM, I THINK THIS APPLICATION IS
REALLY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THE HOUSE IS IN REALLY GOOD
SHAPE.
IT HAS A LOT OF THE REALLY NICE
ORIGINAL DETAILING.
IT LOOKS REALLY WELL
MAINTAINED.
UM, THE ADDITION ALL OF THE
WORK IS COMPLETELY IN THE REAR
OF THE HOME.
I THINK IT&apos;S NICE OF COURSE
THAT YOU STEPPED IT IN ON THE
UM EAST SIDE UM AND I THINK
IT&apos;S AN INTERESTING ARRANGEMENT
TO HAVE THAT EVEN ON THE WEST
SIDE THOUGH IT&apos;S NOT STEPPED
IN.
I THINK THAT TURNING THE
DOORWAY, YOU KNOW, TOWARD THE
DRIVEWAY IS KIND OF I THINK
DIFFERENT ENOUGH FROM THE
NATURE AND CHARACTER OF THE
HOUSE EVEN THOUGH YOU&apos;LL SEE IT
FROM THE BACK AND IT&apos;S NOT IN.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S CLEARLY PART
OF THE ADDITION AND SEPARATE
AND THE SCALE IS STILL I THINK
NICELY DONE IN RELATION TO THE
REST OF THE HOUSE AND THE
PROPORTIONS I THINK THE WINDOWS
AS THEY&apos;VE BEEN DESIGNED OR
MODERN ENOUGH THAT THEY
DEFINITELY LOOK I THINK
DISTINCT FROM FROM THE EXISTING
WINDOWS AND MUCH NEWER AND
TREATMENT UM, THE ONLY OTHER
THING I WAS TRYING TO LOOK AT
THE FOUNDATION YOU CAN SEE THE
COOKSTOWN FOUNDATION OF THE
ORIGINAL HOUSE IF YOU WALK
AROUND I THINK TO THE WEST SIDE
BUT IT&apos;S THE SIDING GOES PRETTY
FAR DOWN TO TWO DEGREE.
SO IT&apos;S REALLY NOT VERY VISIBLE
ESPECIALLY IN THE BACK AND I
COULDN&apos;T SEE ANYTHING ON THE
THE EXISTING PORCH.
SUNDRAM SO IT WAS ALL THE WAY
DOWN.
SO I AGREE IT&apos;S PROBABLY SLAB
ON GRADE SO EVEN THE FOUNDATION
THAT&apos;S PROPOSED TO CMU I THINK
WILL BE COMPLETELY DISTINCT
FROM THE EXISTING FOUNDATION.
OTHER THAN THAT I DON&apos;T HAVE
ANYTHING ELSE TO ADD.
COMMISSIONER MILLS WERE GREAT.
OK, THANK YOU.
UH WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE UM
YOUR MICROPHONE TURN ON YOUR
VIDEO IF POSSIBLE AND PROVIDE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD
.
UH, IT&apos;S A LITTLE HARD TO HEAR
IT IF YOU GET TO HEAR YOU GUYS
IF YOU COULD SPEAK UP A LITTLE
BIT WHENEVER YOU&apos;RE SPEAKING
THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL HERE.
&gt;&gt; YOU BETTER THAN THAT.
STILL KIND OF LOW.
NO, BUT THE REST OF THE
COMMISSIONERS KNOW
IS THAT YES.
&gt;&gt; THERE WE YES.
&gt;&gt; SORRY I&apos;VE GOT UH PAT CLEARY
ADDRESSES THREE FIFTEEN W
MOSELY STREET.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
UM, IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO ADD TO THE STAFF REPORT
A REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT YOU
HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK.
UM, IT LOOKS LIKE WE ALSO HAVE
KYLE ON ONE IF YOU COULD ON
YOUR MICROPHONE AND JUST STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD.
SURE.
I&apos;M THE DESIGNER AND I&apos;M KYLE
MARSH ANOTHER THAT SEVEN EIGHT
TWO ZERO FOUR FOURTH STREET
NEXT YEAR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
EITHER PET OR KYLE.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE
AND OH WELL I CAN JUST CLARIFY
THE UH FOUNDATION QUESTION.
IT WILL BE IT IS YES.
SLAB ON GRADE SO THE GRADE IS
QUITE HIGH BACK THERE.
SO IT&apos;S REALLY KIND OF THE BEST
OPTION AND YEAH.
WELL I&apos;M GLAD TO HEAR THAT IT
SEEMS FAIRLY WELL RECEIVED AS
SO AS A DESIGN AND SO THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S ENCOURAGING TO HEAR AND
LIKE IT YOU LIKE THAT?
OH PAT DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD TO THE
STAFF REPORT A REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT.
&gt;&gt; NO NO NO WE DON&apos;T.
OK COMMISSIONERS DO YOU HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
COMMISSIONER YEAH, WELL I HAD A
COUPLE OF MINOR QUESTIONS FROM
THE FROM THE APPLICATION.
THE APPLICATION WAS VERY
THOROUGH AND THERE&apos;S LOTS
OF INFORMATION TO LOOK AT AND
AND I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT
ONE OF THE NOTES THAT I WAS
LOOKING AT IT&apos;S ON THE LET&apos;S
SEE THIS LOOKS LIKE THE THAT&apos;S
THE W ELEVATION.
IT&apos;S WHERE THE DOOR IS THE NEW
DOOR AND THERE&apos;S A NOTE NEXT TO
THE NEW DOOR.
IT SAYS THIS TRIM BAND EXISTS
INSIDE THE EXISTING FRONT PORCH
OF THE HOME AND MAYBE I&apos;M
WONDERING DID THAT TRIM GO AWAY
IN THE DESIGN OR IS ARE YOU
RECOMMENDING A TRIM, A PIECE
OF TRIM?
I ASSUME IT&apos;S HORIZONTAL TRIM
MAYBE THERE OR WHAT&apos;S GOING ON
THERE?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WE ARE NOT WE ARE NOT
DOING THAT IS A TRIM NOW SO
THAT WE OVER NO WE HAD IT DOWN
THERE IN THE ORIGINAL SO
DISREGARD THAT NOTE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YOU CAN DISREGARD THAT
OK AND ACTUALLY MY MY OTHER
QUESTION IS ABOUT TRIM AS WELL
AND MAYBE IT&apos;S AN EXISTING
CONDITION I&apos;M NOT SURE BUT IF
YOU ARE THINKING NOW ABOUT THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE HOUSE IN THE
SOUTHEAST CORNER THE COURT IS
THERE A CORNER BOARD ON THE
FIRST FLOOR OR IS THAT THE
EXISTING CONDITION OF THE HOUSE
AND THERE IS A CORNER BOARD
THAT SHOULD BE SHOWN THERE?
YEAH, THERE&apos;S A THERE&apos;S A BOARD
THERE OK WHICH I SHOULD THAT
SHOULD HELP WITH THE
SEPARATION.
YEAH.
THAT WILL DEFINITELY HELP
VISUALLY SEPARATE ME.
YEAH YOU HAVE THE INDENT AND
THEN THE CORNER BOARD WILL WILL
HELP EVEN MORE.
&gt;&gt; THOSE ARE MY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
THANKS KYLE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FROM MR OK
NOW MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT THREE FIFTEEN
WEST MOSTLY PUBLIC COMMENT MAY
BE MADE BY CALLING EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTERING MEETING
DENHA NINE SEVEN EIGHT SIX FOUR
ZERO ONE FOUR FIVE ONE FIVE IN
ORDER TO ELECTRONICALLY RAISE
YOUR HAND AFTER TRAILING INTO
THE MEETING PLEASE PRESS STAR
NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
KRISTEN, DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
?
NO CALLERS?
OK, I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PUBLIC HEARING PORTION
OF THE APPLICATION.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER I WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
COMMISSIONER RECALLED
COMMISSIONER HOW I APPROACH WAS
LOOKING AT HIM AND
I MOVE THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION THREE
FIFTEEN WEST MOSELEY&apos;S STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO CONSTRUCT A THREE HUNDRED
AND NINETY THREE SQUARE FOOT
REAR EDITION AS PROPOSED THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND DESIGN
SORRY EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TWO FIVE, NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AND BUILDING SITE AND
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
SECTION
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
KIYONO SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHITE.
IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN SURE.
&gt;&gt; WELL I JUST HAVE A RANDOM
COMMENT ABOUT THIS.
THIS HOUSE FIRST I GUESS IS NOT
RANDOM BUT JUST KIND OF A
GENERAL COMMENT I SHOULD SAY.
I, I, I PERSONALLY THINK THIS
IS A UNIQUE HOUSE IN THE WAY
THAT THE BACK PORTION IS BUILT
.
USUALLY IF YOU HAVE A BACK
PORTION WHERE THE THE GABLE IS
THE SAME WAY AS THE FRONT IT&apos;S
INSET AND IT SEEMS LIKE IF YOU
HAVE ONE THAT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
LIKE OR IT&apos;S FLUSH SOMETIMES DO
THIS ONE YOU WOULD THINK IT
WOULD BE ACROSS GABLE BECAUSE
LIKE A LOT OF TIMES WHEN YOU
SEE A HOUSE LIKE THIS WHERE IT
COMES OUT OF THE BACK YOU&apos;VE
GOT A CROSS GABLE GOING THE
OTHER WAY AND THIS YOU DON&apos;T
HAVE EITHER YOU HAVE THE GABLE
GOING THE SAME WAY AS THE FRONT
AND IT&apos;S OFFSET FROM THE FRONT
.
IT JUST IS ITS OWN UNIQUE THING
THAT BEING SAID, I THINK THAT
.
THE PROPOSED PROJECT FITS THE
THAT BEING SAID, I THINK THAT
STANDARDS VERY WELL.
THE PROPOSED PROJECT FITS THE
I THINK IT IS IMPORTANT TO BE
STANDARDS VERY WELL.
ABLE TO READ THE MASSING
I THINK IT IS IMPORTANT TO BE
OF THAT REAR SECOND THAT REAR
ABLE TO READ THE MASSING
TWO STOREY MASS ESPECIALLY
OF THAT REAR SECOND THAT REAR
SINCE IT IS KIND OF UNIQUE IN
TWO STOREY MASS ESPECIALLY
THIS RESPECT AND I BELIEVE THAT
SINCE IT IS KIND OF UNIQUE IN
THE DESIGNER MADE THE CORRECT
THIS RESPECT AND I BELIEVE THAT
CHOICES TO PRESERVE WHAT WAS
THE DESIGNER MADE THE CORRECT
NEEDED TO BE PRESERVED IN ORDER
CHOICES TO PRESERVE WHAT WAS
TO TO KEEP THAT VIEW INTACT.
NEEDED TO BE PRESERVED IN ORDER
SO I&apos;LL BE SUPPORTING THIS
TO TO KEEP THAT VIEW INTACT.
PROJECT.
SO I&apos;LL BE SUPPORTING THIS
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
PROJECT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
DISCUSSION?
ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
OK, ALL OF THOSE
.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;LL MOVE ON TO THE VOTE.
ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES, YES, YES.
ALL OF THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING WORK
ON YOUR PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
COURSE WE&apos;LL NOW MOVE ON TO
ITEM G NEW BUSINESS NO NEW
BUSINESS ON TONIGHT&apos;S OTHER
HERE WE GO.
&gt;&gt; NEW BUSINESS TONIGHT IS THE
TWENTY TWENTY TWO HGC MEETING
SCHEDULE.
WE&apos;VE TRADITIONALLY BEEN ON A
MEETING SCHEDULE THAT GOES FROM
JULY TO JUNE AND CITY COUNCIL
AND OTHER BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS ARE MOVING TO A
CALENDAR YEAR JANUARY TO
DECEMBER.
SO THERE IS A PROPOSED SCHEDULE
THAT MAY SET OUT THE ONLY THING
THAT&apos;S UNUSUAL ABOUT IT IS THAT
THE NOVEMBER MEETING AGAIN THIS
YEAR IS GETTING REALLY SCREWED
UP BY ELECTIONS.
WE COULD ONLY HAVE OUR DC
MEETING ON NOVEMBER 17 WHICH IS
PRETTY LIGHT AND GIVES A VERY
SHORT TURNAROUND TIME IF
ANYTHING HAS TO COME BACK OR IN
BETWEEN MEETINGS.
WE&apos;LL BE BACK JUST A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AFTER THAT.
SO I BELIEVE THAT IT WAS
PROPOSED WITHOUT A NOVEMBER
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; IF SOMEONE HAS THAT IN FRONT
OF THEM AND COULD CONFIRM THAT
THAT WOULD BE GREAT BECAUSE I
DID THIS YEAR IT&apos;S NOVEMBER
17TH.
OK, WELL IT&apos;S ON ER OK SO IF
YOU WOULD PREFER NOT TO MEET ON
NOVEMBER 17TH LESS THIS PAST
YEAR WE CANCELED THAT MEETING
BECAUSE IT JUST MESSED UP
PEOPLE&apos;S SCHEDULES TOO MUCH
SINCE IT WASN&apos;T THE SECOND
THURSDAY BUT IT IS UP TO ALL
OF YOU I THINK THAT THE
DECEMBER MEETING WAS QUITE LONG
BUT WAS THAT BECAUSE OF GAS
METERS OR SOMETHING?
I FEEL LIKE IT WAS A LONG ONE
BUT YEAH, MAYBE THAT WAS UNIQUE
TO THAT YEAR.
&gt;&gt; I WAS JUST LOOKING AT THAT
TODAY AND THERE WEREN&apos;T A LOT
OF SUBSTANTIAL APPLICATIONS
THERE WERE A LOT OF GAS ODORS.
YEAH YEAH.
I WAS WONDERING ABOUT WITH THE
IT IS POSSIBLE IT WOULD LIKELY
MAKE THE DECEMBER MEETING
LONGER BUT IT&apos;S ENTIRELY UP TO
YOU GUYS WE WE CAN WE CAN LEAVE
IT ON THERE AS IT&apos;S SHOWN NOW
OR IF YOU THINK THAT THAT WOULD
CAUSE A SCHEDULE CONFLICT FOR
ANY OF YOU, COMMISSIONER ROSS
IS SAYING THAT MIGHT BE
PROBLEMATIC FOR HER.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WELL IT&apos;S IT&apos;S YOU
KNOW, ONCE I MEAN I GUESS I&apos;VE
SEEN LIKE ONCE IT GETS KIND
OF COLD LIKE NOVEMBER, DECEMBER
DON&apos;T THE PROJECT KIND
OF NUMBER OF PROJECTS SOMEWHAT
DIP DOWN IN THE OLD DAYS IT DID
WELL BUT NOW EVERYTHING&apos;S
STRANGE AND FOR ABOUT DENHA
NOVEMBER MAYBE JUST BEFORE
DECEMBER.
&gt;&gt; OK, I&apos;M NOT HEARING A LOT
OF SUPPORT FOR NOVEMBER SO IF
YOU ARE ALL RIGHT I WILL LET ME
KNOW YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO VOTE ON
IT THAT WE WILL WE WILL CANCEL
THAT WE WILL SKIP TO NOVEMBER
TWENTY TWENTY TWO MEETING AND
JUST LEAVE IT OFF OF THE
CALENDAR.
OK THANK YOU.
ANYTHING ELSE ON THE NEW
MEETING SCHEDULE ISSUES THAT
SHOULD BE AT WE CAN MOVE ON TO
ITEM EIGHT MINUTES.
WE RECEIVED MINUTES FOR THE
FEBRUARY AND MARCH MEETINGS.
EVERYONE HAD A CHANCE TO REVIEW
THEM OR NEED A COUPLE
OF MINUTES JUST TO LOOK OVER
ONCE MORE GUYS IT LOOKS LIKE
EVERYTHING ER THERE ANY
OBJECTION OK ANY OBJECTIONS OR
ADDITIONS OR CHANGES.
OK SO THE MEETING MINUTES FOR
FEBRUARY 10TH AND MARCH TWENTY
TWENTY TWO HAVE BEEN APPROVED
ONTO ITEM I-REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS&apos; IS WOULD ANY
COMMISSIONER I&apos;D LIKE TO SHARE
SOMETHING WITH THE COMMISSION
STATURED I SENT YOU AN EMAIL
EARLIER REGARDING A IS THAT IN
THERE SOMEWHERE IT&apos;S ON YOUR
SCREEN RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; OH IT IS OK.
YES IT IS.
&gt;&gt; WOULD YOU LIKE TO TELL US A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT IT?
WELL, IF YOU HAVE THAT BLURB
AND I SAID OH YEAH I CAN GO
BACK TO THE WAY YOU READ THAT
AND THEN I CAN JUST ADD TWO
CENTS.
OK, THIS IS A BLURB ABOUT AN
EVENT HOMES AND BUILDINGS ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR EMITTING TWENTY
FIVE PERCENT OF THE GREENHOUSE
GASES AND OUR COMMUNITY ONE WAY
TO MINIMIZE THESE EMISSIONS IS
THROUGH A PROCESS HOME
ELECTRIFICATION REPLACING
COMBUSTION APPLIANCES WITH
ELECTRIC ONES.
AT THIS EVENT WE WILL DISCUSS
THE PROCESS OF HOME
ELECTRIFICATION IN DETAIL WITH
AN EMPHASIS ON THE CHALLENGES
PRESENTED BY OLDER EXISTING
HOMES.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL ALSO HEAR FROM OUR
NEIGHBORS WHO WILL SHARE THEIR
EXPERIENCES AT HOME
ELECTRIFICATION PROJECTS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH SO THIS IS AN EVENT
IT&apos;S ON APRIL 26.
I BRING IT UP IN THIS FORUM
BECAUSE IT DOES HAVE A EMPHASIS
ON HISTORIC HOMES.
&gt;&gt; SO WE WILL BE TALKING ABOUT
HOW TO IF YOU&apos;RE INTERESTED IN
ELECTRIFICATION, HOME
ELECTRIFICATION, HOW DO YOU DO
THAT IN YOUR EXISTING OLD
HOUSE?
IT&apos;S AT THE ANN ARBOR
DISTILLERY SIX O&apos;CLOCK AND
APRIL TWENTY SIX YOU&apos;LL HEAR
FROM WELL YOU&apos;LL HEAR FROM ME
YOU&apos;LL HEAR FROM OTHER
NEIGHBORS IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
AND WATER HILL INCLUDING JOHN
BEEST IN OUR FORMER
COMMISSIONER HERE.
SO IT SHOULD BE A FUN EVENT.
THERE&apos;S A SPECIAL DRINKS
SPECIAL THE DISTILLERY HAS A
I&apos;M NOT TO BE ABLE TO PULL THE
NAME IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A PUN ABOUT RYE
WHISKEY I THINK LIKE SOLAR
SUNRISE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IT&apos;S I THINK A DOLLAR OF IT
GOES TO THE THE CITY&apos;S EIGHT TO
ZERO EMISSION.
SO COME OUT, HAVE A DRINK,
LEARN ABOUT HOME
ELECTRIFICATION IN YOUR OLDER
HOME.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER, DO YOU KNOW IF
THERE WILL BE EXAMPLES FROM ANY
OF WITHIN ANY OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS?
YES, BECAUSE MACROCOSMIC WILL
BE SPEAKING AS WELL AND WE ALL
KNOW THAT HIS HOUSE IS ON 7TH
STREET IN THE OLD WEST SIDE AND
IT&apos;S A NET ZERO HISTORIC HOME.
SO HE WILL BE GIVING US A
PRESENTATION ON HIS HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; OK, AND DO YOU MIND IF WE
DISTRIBUTE THAT FLIER?
&gt;&gt; IF I IF I SEND IT TO THE
COMMISSIONERS, CAN THEY TELL
ALL THEIR FRIENDS?
ABSOLUTELY.
OK, AREA THANK YOU JOE.
ANY OF THE REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS&apos; ONTO JAY
ASSIGNMENT&apos;S THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE WILL BE ON MONDAY AT
FIVE PM
THAT DAY MAY NINE FOR
THE MAY 12 REGULAR MEETING.
AND IS THAT A FIVE O&apos;CLOCK?
YES, YEAH.
YEAH I&apos;M FROM OUT OF THAT.
WE&apos;RE BACK ON THE SUMMER
SCHEDULE.
ANY TAKERS CAN DO IT?
&gt;&gt; I CAN DO IT.
OK, COMMISSIONER EVERSON,
ANYONE ELSE
?
I THINK I CAN DO IT.
MAYBE I COULD OK YEAH I CAN DO
THAT OK YEAH.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT MAN AND DAVE THANK
YOU BOTH RIGHT AREN&apos;T YOU ERM
OK REPORT TO STAFF I HAVE A
COUPLE OF THINGS FOR YOU FIRST
THE MARCH STAFF ACTIVITIES
REPORT SHOULD HAVE BEEN IN YOUR
PACKET.
IT&apos;S PROBABLY STILL WONKY
LOOKING BECAUSE NOW WE&apos;RE TWO
THIRDS INTO STREAM AND ONE
THIRD INTO TRACK AND WE STILL
CAN&apos;T PRODUCE REPORTS FROM
STREAM SO I&apos;M NOT SURE EXACTLY
WHAT&apos;S IN THERE BUT IT&apos;S
PROBABLY PRETTY SPARSE LOOKING
I WOULD IMAGINE WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE
STILL WORKING ON THE TRANSITION
AND I&apos;M I&apos;M TRYING TO GET
EVERYONE TO STOP USING TRACK
IT.
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S TURNED OFF SO
THAT NONE OF NONE KNOWN FROM
THE OUTSIDE COULD SUBMIT A
PROJECT OR PERMANENT TO TRACK
IT ANY MORE.
&gt;&gt; BUT SOMETIMES STAFF STILL DO
IT ANYWAY.
I THINK BECAUSE IT&apos;S REALLY
QUICK BECAUSE WE&apos;RE USED TO
USING IT AND WE&apos;VE JUST GOT TO
TURN IT OFF AND BITE THE BULLET
AND I&apos;LL BE IN STREAM AND THEN
FIGURE IT OUT AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A
LITTLE BIT MESSY BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
GOING PRETTY WELL AND WE&apos;VE
HEARD FROM THE PUBLIC THAT IT&apos;S
MUCH BETTER BECAUSE THEY CAN
JUST APPLY ONLINE AND BE DONE
AND PAY ONLINE WITH A CREDIT
CARD AND AND NOT HAVE TO COME
DOWN AND NOT HAVE TO CALL IN A
CREDIT CARD OVER THE PHONE AND
NOT HAVE YOU KNOW, EMAIL ME PDF
SOME THINGS.
AND SO IT&apos;S SO FAR SO GOOD I
ANOTHER THING IS A REMINDER
THAT THE RETREAT IS THIS
SATURDAY MORNING IT WILL BE AT
THE SENIOR CENTER IN BERN&apos;S
PARK.
IT&apos;S FROM NINE TO NOON AND I&apos;VE
QUITE A LOT OF PROJECTS IN OUR
ANNUAL REVIEW OF PROJECTS SINCE
THERE WAS SORT OF A BOTTLENECK
THERE FOR A WHILE AND I&apos;VE GOT
SOME THINGS GOING BACK TO
TWENTY TWENTY AND SOME TWENTY
EIGHT BUNCH OF TWENTY TWENTY
ONES THAT I&apos;M CURRENTLY TAKING
PICTURES OF SO THAT SHOULD BE
AN INTERESTING LOOK BACK IN
TIME.
ONE VERY IMPORTANT QUESTION IS
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
MAKE FOOD SOMETIMES IN PAST
YEARS I&apos;D MAKE A WHOLE SPREAD
FOR THE RETREAT.
I&apos;M AFRAID I WON&apos;T BE ABLE TO
DO THAT.
WOULD YOU LIKE ME TO GET
DOUGHNUT&apos;S?
&gt;&gt; YEAH I&apos;VE SEEN SOME MAD&apos;S
REFUSE IT NOT FOR ME NO THANK
YOU.
OK, THERE&apos;S NO DONUT GUY.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT OK WITH YOU GUYS
WHERE THERE SOMETHING ELSE YOU
COULD COULD DO BAGELS AND YOU
HAVE A PREFERENCE.
I&apos;D RATHER NOT STOP AT BOTH
BECAUSE I&apos;M ALWAYS LIKE A
CHICKEN WITH MY HEAD CUT OFF
THAT MORNING BUT I&apos;M FLEXIBLE I
GUESS FOR YOU THAT MORNING.
YES IT&apos;S ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL WE&apos;LL WE&apos;LL SEE HOW
SATURDAY MORNING IS LOOKING.
LET&apos;S SEE.
I THINK THAT&apos;S IT FOR ME.
THANK YOU TO ADAM.
ITEM CONCERNS COMMISSIONERS.
ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS ANY
COMMISSIONERS WOULD LIKE TO
SHARE ONTO MS.
COMMUNICATIONS?
NO, WE HAD NO COMMUNICATION
THIS MONTH AND THEN IN
ADJOURNMENT I ADJOURNED APRIL
14TH HGC MEETING WITH